# PWModel-Python-version
Python script version of the Parametric Wave Model 
This collection of codes/data provides a tool for the calculation of wave parameters Hs, Peak dir, Tp generated by tropical cyclones using a parametric wave model (PWModel)

Content: Python script and functions: "Find_HsTpdir_TC_main.py" is the main code with an example of how to get the wave parameters in a required position; "PWModel.py" is the function to generate the TC wave field; "rotate_wave_model.py" is a function to rotate the storm and get the parameters at a specific point of the TC wave field;

Dataset to run the model is a folder named 'wave_diagrams' that can be downloaded from: https://doi.org/10.26188/27237156 The folder 'wave_diagrams' has the spatial distributions necessary to run the PWModel. It contains 378 model runs with the spatial distribution of wave parameters. These files are in Matlab (.mat) and the actual Python code can load them. They have the following naming convention: "wave_Deltap_Vfm_R34_Rmax.mat" where Deltap = central pressure drop (pambiant-p0) in hPa Vfm = velocity of forward movement in m/s*10 R34 = radius to gales in km Rmax = radius of maximum winds in km

When loaded the variables used by the model are: xrm = x/R - nondimensional distance in x direction (R = 30km) yrm = y/R - nondimension distance in y direction (R = 30km) Z = Hs/Hs(max) - nondimensional significant wave height. The matrix is stored as Z(x,y) or Z(column, row). Tp = Peak wave period spatial distribution 'seconds'. The matrix is stored as Z(x,y) or Z(column, row). upeak = zonal component peak direction. The matrix is stored as Z(x,y) or Z(column, row). vpeak = meridional component peak direction. The matrix is stored as Z(x,y) or Z(column, row). *The variable T is the nondimensional Peak period (Tp/Tp(max)). Not used in the current calculations. **The variable Hs is the original Hs spatial distribution. Not used in the current calculations.

Please refer to: Grossmann-Matheson et al. The spatial distribution of ocean wave parameters in tropical cyclones, Ocean Eng, 317, 120091 (2025). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oceaneng.2024.120091
